---
title: "Design of EMG-driven Musculoskeletal Model for Volitional Control of a Robotic Ankle Prosthesis"
collection: Conference Publications
url: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9981305
venue: 'IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Kyoto, Japan'
excerpt: 'Authors: C. Shah, A. Fleming, V. Nalam, M. Liu and H. H. Huang'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9981305'
citation: 'C. Shah, A. Fleming, V. Nalam, M. Liu and H. H. Huang, "Design of EMG-driven Musculoskeletal Model for Volitional Control of a Robotic Ankle Prosthesis," 2022 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Kyoto, Japan, 2022, pp. 12261-12266, doi: 10.1109/IROS47612.2022.9981305.'
---

**Abstract:** Existing robotic lower-limb prostheses use autonomous control to address cyclic, locomotive tasks, but are inadequate in adapting to variations in non-cyclic and unpredictable tasks. This study aims to address this challenge by designing a novel electromyography (EMG)-driven musculoskeletal model for volitional control of a robotic ankle-foot prosthesis. The proposed controller ensures continuous control of the device, allowing users to freely manipulate the prosthesis behavior. A Hill-type muscle model was implemented to model a dorsiflexor and a plantarflexor to function around a virtual ankle joint. The model parameters for a subject specific model was determined by fitting the model to the experimental data collected from an able-bodied subject. EMG signals recorded from antagonist muscle pairs were used to activate the virtual muscle models. This model-based approach was then validated via offline simulations and real-time prosthesis control. Additionally, the feasibility of the proposed prosthesis control on assisting the user's functional tasks was demonstrated. The present control may further improve the function of robotic prosthesis for supporting versatile activities in individuals with lower-limb amputations.